---
title: Why can’t I focus?
description: There is something that I have been struggling with lately that I feel is becoming more and more common. That is the idea of focus. The Merriam-Webster defines focus as the centre of activity, attraction and attention. I quite like that definition so let's break the focus of this article into 3 parts (see what I did there, I'm not sure if that qualifies as a pun). 
date: 31st of May 2020
---
# Why can't I focus?

There is something that I have been struggling with lately that I feel is becoming more and more common. That is the idea of focus. The Merriam-Webster defines focus as the centre of activity, attraction and attention. I quite like that definition so let's break the focus of this article into 3 parts (see what I did there, I'm not sure if that qualifies as a pun). 

Activity. Focus on what we do, where we are going, what we are spending our time doing. As people, we have numerous different interests and commitments pulling at us, and often those are in opposing directions. There aren't many people I have met who would say that they are 100% satisfied with the way they allocated their time this week. I would pat myself on the back if at the end of the week I was satisfied with how I spent 50% of my time. Heck, you would probably lucky to find someone in a group of 100 people who could even really tell you what they did with most of their time. 

Attraction. This is what drives the activity. This to simplify would boil down to values. What we truly care about. Or at least what we think we care about. The activities you end up doing are intrinsically tied to what we believe in. Now an important dichotomy to note is the difference between what we say/think we are attracted to and what we actually are attracted to. This is a concept I find really interesting. What we think we believe vs what we actually believe vs what we want to believe. That is a whole other article though but in essence, it could be summed up as Matthew 6: 21 from the big book. It reads: Where your treasure is your heart is also. In this case, your real treasure is time. So if you stop for a second to check where your time is being spent then you should also be able to see what you are actually being attracted to.

Then that brings us to attention. It is attention that at the end that feeds both our conscious and unconscious attractions. So attention is all our inputs. The media we consume, the friends we have, the books we read you get the gist. Every day there are a million and one things vying for our attention and what we place centrally in the midst of all the noise has a domino effect on the rest of our lives.

So if you are still with me up till this point I commend you and your focus because you are probably still thinking what is this guys point. I fully accept that criticism and the reason what is up there is feeling pretty messy is because I have committed to getting this post done in one sitting. Why is that you may ask? Well because of my focus and attention issues while I would love to do long, well-researched pieces if I told myself I should try to then I will probably never write anything. There is a tonne of reasons for that so now that is what I will get into. This is the real meat and potatoes of this post so I will try to keep it concise. Also if you want a good book to read on this topic as it is something that concerns you then I would definitely recommend Indistractable by Nir Eyal which I will refer to both directly and indirectly henceforth. 

For the 3 parts of focus I mentioned above in truth I did them in reverse of how you should think about it. It all starts with attention we all know what we put in is what we get out. If there are certain things you want to do with your life then consuming things that bring you in that direction is the way to go. Take the example of me and video games. I want to play fewer video games in general or at least avoid the gaming binges that conveniently arise when there is an uncomfortable or difficult task I have to do. Now if I am serious about not playing games that day then what I know to do is not go onto YouTube during my breaks and downtime on that day. Why? Because my YouTube recommended is filled with gaming videos that if I watch I will feel like playing games. I don't normally mind this but when I have things to do it just doesn't work. So instead I read. That is controlling your attention.

Another thing to be noted on the topic of attention is keeping your attention on something in the first place. This is something me and the people around me have noted recently. It seems to me that it is becoming harder and harder to stay focused on one task for an extended period of time. That is because humans by nature are not motivated intrinsically by love, virtue, or honour. Or at least it isn't our first reaction. No instead what drives most of our behaviours are fear, discomfort and boredom. Or more specifically the never-ending journey of escaping these. I have a confession to make. The real reason I am writing this right now is because I have another more difficult task I should be doing so I am writing this post as a slightly more productive way of appeasing my conscience. I am running from discomfort. That said I don't feel too bad about that because I have also been wanting to write more for a while. There is something to be said about setting the things you are attracted to in such a way that even your procrastinating brings you towards the person you want to be.

Nir Eyal has a  really interesting idea in his book. He breaks up the word distraction to its roots. Dis and traction. Dis is commonly known as it is the opposite of something. Yet traction is not as commonly thought about. Put simply it is the action of pulling something over a surface in a particular direction. So that tells us what distraction should mean is that anything whether you would consider it good or bad that isn't bringing you in whatever directions you want in life can be considered a distraction. Now the problem is, for the most part, is that when we make our new years resolutions, and all the life goals we set just a bunch of individual actions that in themselves may seem healthy but we often fail to set where we are trying to actually go. The issue with this is time is our most finite resource and we honestly just don't have the time to do all the good things. So we need to pick and choose. If we don't even know the direction that we want to go in how can we decide what to do?

This is where I will end because I am also in the situation where although I always feel like I am wasting time I don't really know what it is I want to spend my time on. So that is my focus on the next 2 weeks is to narrow that down. I will probably write something as well on the tools and techniques I use to do that. If you want to read that when it comes out then feel free to put your email [here.](https://sendfox.com/opeidris) If not that is cool too. Insert slightly humorous but also thought-provoking end line here. Peace.