---
title: Addicted to dreaming
description: If I asked you right now to list 5 things you could do this week that would make your life at least a little bit better than it is right now I'm pretty sure you could. I mean we all could. Yet if I asked you at the end of the week how many of things from that list you actually tried then the answer would be maybe one of them. If you were having a good week. Now if we take a look at this list again in 1 month, 6 months, 1 year at any of those practices and you are still doing any of those 5 things in an even somewhat consistent manner then I applaud you my friend.
date: 31st of May 2020
---
# Addicted to dreaming

If I asked you right now to list 5 things you could do this week that would make your life at least a little bit better than it is right now I'm pretty sure you could. I mean we all could. Yet if I asked you at the end of the week how many of things from that list you actually tried then the answer would be maybe one of them. If you were having a good week. Now if we take a look at this list again in 1 month, 6 months, 1 year at any of those practices and you are still doing any of those 5 things in an even somewhat consistent manner then I applaud you my friend. That's because in that case you are doing much better than me.

One of the things I have come to note in my admittedly few years on the planet is that often I don't do nearly as much for myself as I would like to admit. As people we are terrible at keeping promises and commitment we make to ourselves. It is not just commitments either. We as people have big dreams. We strive to be planet shakers, and world changers. Influencers, inventors and innovators. We lie in our beds at night staring at the ceiling seeing visions of grandeur. That new idea, that new business, that new goal, that new you. Somehow though, when you wake up the next morning that "you" has evaporated like it fears the morning sun. Why is this though?

One of the reasons for this is that I have found myself and in talking to several of my friends is that what we really want often isn't the outcome itself but simply the good feeling that is acquired by dreaming about it. That is to say,  when you make that new years resolution about hitting the gym this year and turning your fitness around, the reason why you find yourself passed out on the couch surrounded by left over doughnut wrappers by February is simple. In reality your brain didn't really want to lose weight, because that's hard. What it instead wanted was the feeling of you planning to lose weight. The endorphins gained by visualising yourself after you reached your goal. Maybe most importantly the sense of assurance you gain at the time because albeit only for a little while you feel in control of your life again. To put it simply often dreaming of a change can feel much better than actually making said change. We are addicted to dreaming because dreaming feels good.

Honestly the best way to deal with this in my experience is honesty. Next time you are lying in bed or gazing into the distance stop for a minute. Ask yourself so how much of these things am I actually going to do. Or more importantly if this is where I actually really want to go. That is because not everything that tastes sweet is honey. I myself am a very lazy person, and I can admit that. So when I come up with a new idea I instantly try to think of how much effort it'd actually take to get from here to there. That works wonders in dampening the spirit a bit, because doing anything good in a way that's worth doing usually requires truckloads of your blood sweat and tears. 

For most cases it really isn't worth putting yourself through that. But if you do truly imagine the slog and still can't help but feel a little bit excited then maybe it could also be time really get excited. That is because maybe you have found something you actually care about not just something you think would be pretty cool. Something worth sinking the next few months, years or decades into depending on how grand the ambition. That's because that's how long good things take.

It is coming to the terms with the fact that you aren't that paragon of willpower and grit you see yourself as in your head. Instead you are merely a mortal. Probably a smart and ambitious mortal, but a mortal nonetheless. So you won't be able to do all the crazy ideas that pop into your head. And that is ok, because you only need to do the ones that matter. The reason for killing a bit of the joy you feel as you stumble into your next "game changer" is that only by doing so and putting aside some of the emotion will you be able to gain the clarity needed to actually plan out the next steps. 

What is important is to break down the big ideas into 'so what do I have to do next?' and then do that thing. If you do that consistently you can reach any goal. Of course that is a gross oversimplification but as complicated as life is it's also really simple. Deciding on action, then completing that action. That is all there is to it. Yet we still struggle to do it.

The secret then is now that we have established that we are not a paragon of willpower is to make it less about willpower. What I mean by this is to slowly build up habits that will bring your life in the direction you want to head. In 1892, the famous psychologist William James wrote, “All our life, so far as it has definite form, is but a mass of habits." 

Now plenty of people much smarter than me have written on habit forming so I would refer you to The Power of Habit by Charles Duhigg or Atomic Habits by James Clear instead of adding my opinion to the matter. It comes down to this, if we make all the grand things a little less grand and focus on the small things that make up the bigger picture then you get less reliant on that ever fleeting feeling of motivation and instead just begin to get things done.

Now don't get me wrong. There is nothing wrong with lying in bed dreaming of all the things that will make your life better. As long as you realise most of them will just be dreams. If you instead focus on doing little tasks and building upon small successes you'll eventually start to see a snowball effect. And maybe, just maybe you will be able to look back on next year and see that you had done 2 of those things on your list at the beginning. If you can then you should also take the time to really feel good about yourself because that is an infinite times better than the likely zero things you got done the year before. You would have genuinely made your life at least a little bit better and more fulfilling. And you made more than just a dream.