---
title: 250 Cold Calls
description: I am going to have to experiments running concurrently. One will be beginning to work on my **Dream 100**. The next will be cold calling 250 local business’. Why 250? There is no real reason the main reason for me picking it was because why not? 
date: 29th of May 2020
---

# 250 Cold Calls
I am going to have to experiments running concurrently. One will be beginning to work on my **Dream 100**. The next will be cold calling **250 local business’.** Why 250? There is no real reason the main reason for me picking it was because why not? Do I want them all to be local? I believe I do. I am not sure yet what I am pitching them but I do know that it will likely be marketing related. While I am not opposed to doing development work for them I think the better thing for myself long term is to see if I can begin doing more on the strategy side. Even if I then have to do the implementation myself afterwards. 

### Some Criteria
So as I begin to put together this list I need to come up with some criteria for the kinds of business’s I want to work with. Although I said  I want to call 250 local business’ one thing I thought might be interesting would be to perhaps do 50 all from different industries. What do I mean by that? Is that I will do the calls in batches of 50. I will try to to see which ones have the best reception to the process’s and which industries are the most pleasant to speak to. Here are some of the criteria I think I would be looking at.

- Small business’s. Under 50 people. A decision maker would still be relatively entrepreneurial and accessible
- Currently running ads?
- Have already reopened or will be looking to re-open soon
So what industries do I initially have interest in. What I found interesting when I was thinking of this is that I wasn’t really thinking of it in terms of specific industries. Instead I started thinking of it in terms of the kinds of business’s that  I would want to work with. Here are some of the categories I thought of:

- Local Services. Small business’s that offer a service on a semi-recurring basis.
- Companies that I have interacted with or purchased from before but I feel could have done better 
- Small Sales companies

### What to watch out for
Something I know in myself that I struggle with is I put too much emotion in individual prospects. If one prospect seems to be going well then I drop the rest of my prospects and only focus on them. I need to remember that at the end of the day it is still a numbers game. Even now I have one particular prospect in mind that I think would be a good fit. Yet because of that I am already imagining them as if the sale is closed even though I don’t know a tonne about their business. That is the kind of thinking that has gotten me into trouble before though. The reason being is that whether it goes well or not I end up placing too much credence in it.

### The First Morning
Ok so here is really just a continuation of the night before. What has struck me is that I went to bed extremely excited to begin making some calls but I woke up this morning dreading the thought of even putting the list together. It is this kind of resistance that leaves us in our current state. Even in writing this tiny paragraph I have stopped to check my phone 3 times. As in a started writing this at 9 am and it is 10 am and I am no further.