---
title: My Dream 100
description: Before I sat down to write I had 100 different ideas running through my mind. I was filled with excitement. I was rearing to go. Yet as soon as I sat down at my desk all the ideas fled. So now instead of writing what I was meant to write I am writing this. Yet I think this may still be valuable. 
date: 29th of May 2020
---
# My Dream 100
Before I sat down to write I had 100 different ideas running through my mind. I was filled with excitement. I was rearing to go. Yet as soon as I sat down at my desk all the ideas fled. So now instead of writing what I was meant to write I am writing this. Yet I think this may still be valuable. I am not sure who will read this as at least for now I have no plans to overly promote this. Yet I feel in the effort of forcing myself to produce. In the effort of forcing myself to write I am also forcing myself to grow.

Take note of this dear reader, in the minute it took me to write the paragraph above the ideas have returned to me. This is after an hour of standing up and sitting down. An hour of making excuses and pacing and making myself yet another cup of tea. What unlocked my own mind for me was just starting. All of this is not what you came here for so let me begin.

### My dillema
So at this point I am in a place where I want to start my own thing but I don’t know what to start. What many recommend in my situation is then to start building your audience. The problem with that then is that I do not know what niche I want to enter or who I want to serve. The niches I feel I could help I have little interest in and the ones I feel the most passionate about I have no experience or authority to speak in. So what’s left for me. Well you may or may not know this about me but one of my goals in life is to meet a lot of interesting people. You could say that it is my main goal in life at the moment. To build interesting things with interesting people. So what I have decided to do is an adaptation of the Dream 100.  This is an idea I got from Traffic Secrets by Russel Brunson. 

The idea of the Dream 100 is that when you are creating a new product or service one of the first things you should do is find the people and places that already have access to your dream customers. Your goal then becomes how to access those people who have put in the work before you instead of how you need to struggle and toil for each customer. Mind you I do not believe effort wise the Dream 100 seems any easier than trying to create your own audience. On the contrary it is probably harder. That is because anyone who is worth the time of being on your Dream 100 probably has better things to do with their time than pay attention to you. So to get their attention you would have to begin providing real value of a magnitude that it attracts the attention of someone who already has everything you would want.

Yet the reason I still think that the Dream 100 would be so valuable besides how difficult it would be is that it seems so much more effective. If you are successful in converting even 10 of the people in your Dream 100. Turning even 10 of them into someone who is willing to vouch for you and your product not only would you have gained access to audiences many times what you could have built on your own but you would have then built some valuable relationships that will enrich your career and more importantly your life as a whole.


### Adapting it for me
The thing is that even though that all sounded great and probably is great. I still don’t know who I want to serve or what niche I want to enter. As such I wouldn’t even know where to begin with which people I want on my Dream 100. So I decided to do it a little differently. My Dream 100 won’t be people who are necessarily doing something inane industry I want to go into. Instead it would be people who have inspired me, taught me a lot or just seem really cool. It will be people I feel I can learn from and that the thought of being able to give back a little bit to them for the value they have given me excites me. 

This isn’t a short term list and I feel as if it may be several years before I can even enter the circles of some of the people on the list but at the same time I feel as if the process of reaching for them will be valuable in itself. I haven’t decided everyone who will be on my Dream 100 yet but I will have the list available on a google sheet if ya’ll want to check on my reasons for them being there and my eventual progress. 

A few short things about how it is going to work at least for now. Once I put them on the list I will begin thinking of the ways I can interact with them and what cool projects I could do that could add value to them or their communities. As for how successful I am I will rank my interactions with my Dream 100 like this.

_Meaningful Interaction_ **\<** _Full Conversation_ **\<** _Shout out or vouch_ **\<** _Work For them_ **\<** _Get a recommendation from them_ **\<** _Work with them._

That is pretty much it for now. You can find my Dream 100 list [here.](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1spcK1lf2OULBIVj-HP3MFwCAURU8c21a2LJq1MQQ4y4/edit?usp=sharing) (Still a work in progress)